
Contributing Guide
==================

Hello, and thank you so much for taking your time to contribute in any way to
htop! There are many ways to contribute, and I'll try to list them below. The
support from the free software community has been amazing over the years and
it is the number one thing that keeps me going, maintaining and improving
something that started as a tiny pet project back in 2004 and that nowadays is
a piece of software used all over the world, in both reality [and
fiction!](http://hisham.hm/htop/index.php?page=sightings). Cheers!

-- Hisham Muhammad

Bug Reports
-----------

Bug reports should be posted in the [Github issue
tracker](http://github.com/hishamhm/htop/issues). (I reply to them all, but I
usually do it in batches! :) ) Bug reports are extremely important since it's
impossible for me to test htop in every possible system, distribution and
scenario. Your feedback is what keeps the tool stable and always improving!
Thank you!

Pull Requests
-------------

Code contributions are most welcome! Just [fork the
repo](http://github.com/hishamhm/htop) and send a [pull
request](https://github.com/hishamhm/htop/pulls). Help is especially
appreciated for support of platforms other than Linux. If proposing new
features, please be mindful that htop is a system tool that needs to keep a
small footprint and perform well on systems under stress -- so unfortunately I
can't accept every new feature proposed, as I need to keep the tool slim and
maintainable. Great ideas backed by a PR are always carefully considered for
inclusion, though! Also, PRs containing bug fixes and portability tweaks are a
no-brainer, please send those in!

Feature Requests
----------------

Back when htop was hosted in SourceForge, there used to be separate Bug
Tracker and Feature Request pages. These go all lumped together under "Issues"
in Github, which is a bit confusing. For this reason, I close Feature Requests
and file them with the [`feature
request`](https://github.com/hishamhm/htop/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+label%3A%22feature+request%22+)
label, where they remain accessible, but not mixed with actual bug reports.
This doesn't mean I'm dismissing or ignoring feature requests right away! It's
just an organizational issue (with Github, really!).

Donations
---------

If you like htop, feel free to [buy the author a
beer](http://hisham.hm/htop/index.php?page=donate). :-) 

