.TH irdb-get "1" "Last change: Sep 2015" "irdb-get @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR - list, search and download lirc configuration files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBirdb-get\fR update
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR find  <\fIstring\fR>
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR info  <\fIid\fR>
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR download <\fIid\fR>
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR list [\fIpattern\fR]
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR find-driver  <\fIstring\fR>
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR yaml-config
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR  <\fI\-h\fR|\fI\-\-help\fR|\fI\-v\fR|\fI\-\-version\fR>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBirdb-get\fR can list, search and download lirc remote configuration
files.  It works by downloading an index file, making all operations
besides the actual download local.
.P
Entries in the index are identified by an \fIid\fR. Such an \fIid\fR
is on the form
.I dir/remote
e. g.,
.I x10/ati_remote_wonder_III

.SH COMMANDS
.TP 4
.B update
Download the index from the remote repository.
.TP 4
\fBfind\fR <\fIstring\fR>
List all entries in the index file matching <string>. Matching is done
using regular shell match syntax (i. e., not regex).
.TP 4
\fBfind-driver\fR <\fIstring\fR>
List all entries in the index with a given driver. The matching is
exact, no wildcards.
.TP 4
\fBinfo\fR <\fIid\fR>
Print some more info about a given entry.
.TP 4
\fBdownload\fR <\fIid\fR>
Download the configuration file for a given entry. The filename is printed
on stdout.
.TP 4
\fBlist\fR <\fIpattern\fR>
List entries matching <pattern>. <pattern> is on the form dir/remote e. g.,
.I x10/ati*
or
.I */ati_remote_wonder* .

The first word in the list is something like -RL- where the letters represent:
.RS 4
.IP R 4
Raw configuration.
.IP T 4
Remote has timing information i. e., it can be used with generic
capture devices.
.IP L 4
Remote has a lircmd config file.
.IP P 4
Remote has a photo.
.RE

.TP 4
\fByaml-config\fR
Prints a YAML file on stdout which maps drivers to remote files with
corresponding \fIdriver\fR attribute. The format is unstable and primarely
used by lirc-setup(1).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP 4
\fB-h\fR , \fB--help\fR
Print help message.

.TP 4
\fB-v\fR , \fB--version\fR
Print version info.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP 4
\fBLIRC_REMOTES_URL\fR
The  base URL used when downloading config files, defaults to
\fIhttps://sourceforge.net/p/lirc-remotes/code/ci/master/tree\fR.

.TP 4
\fBLIRC_REMOTES_LIST\fR
URL to a file listing all remotes, as created by lirc-lsremotes(1).
Defaults to  \fIhttp://lirc-remotes.sourceforge.net/remotes.list\fR.

.TP 4
\fBXDG_CACHE_HOME\fR
If defined, relocates the cached, downloaded remotes listing file to
\fI$XDG_CACHE_HOME/remotes.list\fR, see FILES.


.SH FILES
.TP 4
.B ~/.cache/remotes.list
The index file downloaded on demand or by the update command.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://sourceforge.net/projects/lirc-remotes
