.TH IREXEC "1" "Last change: Oct 2015" "irexec @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirexe\fRc - run programs with one button press
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B irexec
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIconfig_file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBirexec\fR executes commands on an IR signal decoded
by lircd, the LIRC daemon. It uses an lircrc config file where
the \fI config = \fR entries are executed. E. g., given the
following config file snippet
.nf
    begin
        prog   = irexec
        button = KEY_RED
        config = echo "KEY_RED"
    end
.fi
.P
\fBirexec\fR will echo \fIKEY_RED\fR on the terminal when the corresponding
button is pushed on a remote. The command is an arbitrary shell command
executed asynchronously \- \fBirexec\fR does not wait for it to complete.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 4
.B config_file
lircrc configuration file. \fBirexec\fR only uses entries with
\fIprog = irexec\fR. The path defaults to \fI~/.config/lircrc\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h, --help
Display usage summary
.TP 4
.B -v, --version
Display version
.TP 4
.B  -d, --daemon
Make irexec fork to background. In this case a config file should be given
on the command line as irexec won't be able to find any home directory.
.TP 4
\fB-D, --loglevel\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Determine the amount of logging information. [\fIlevel\fR] can be a symbolic
syslog level: \fIerror\fR, \fIwarning\fR, \fIinfo\fR, \fInotice\fR or
\fIdebug\fR. lirc also defines three additional levels \fItrace\fR,
\fItrace\fR and \fItrace2\fR which gives even more messages (\fItrace2\fR
bringing the most). However, in the log these messages are marked as
\fIdebug\fR. By default, no logging is done.
.TP 4
\fB-n, --name\fR <\fIname\fR>
Use this program name instead of the default \fIirexec\fR as identifier in
the lircd.conf file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 4
.B LIRC_SOCKET_PATH
Path to the lircd socket irexec reads from, defaults to @varrundir@/lirc/lircd.
.SH FILES
.TP 4
.B ~/.config/lircrc
Default config file
.TP 4
.B @etcdir@/lirc/lircrc
Config file used by the systemd irexec service.
.TP 4
.B ~/.cache/irexec.log
Debug log. Setting the XDG_CACHE_HOME environment variable relocates this
file to $XDG_CACHE_HOME/irexec.log
.SH NOTES
.P
For versions up to 0.9.1 \fBirexec\fR used to  wait until the executed program
terminated. Old configuration files thus often includes a  '&' appended
to the command string to avoid being stuck in the command. This is not
required in 0.9.2+ which cannot wait for command completion.
.P
irexec should run as a service. The contrib directory contains a .desktop
file which could be dropped in ~/.local/autostart. Doing so creates a
service which can be handled by regular desktop tools such
as \fIgnome\-tweak\-tool\fR on all major desktops. If running restricted
commands such as powering off the machine is required, sudo(8) can be used
to allow regular users to run such commands.
.P
An alternative is to use the irexec.service systemd service
which runs as root (and can run in parallel with the desktop service).
Running as root has severe security implications.
See the Configuration Guide in the html documentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 4
.B lircrc(5)
The lircrc configuration file.
