.TH IRPIPE "1" "Last change: Aug 2015" "irpipe @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirpipe\fR - tool to send data to lircd over /dev/irpipe kernel device.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBirpipe\fR [\fIoptions\fR] <file
.P
\fBirpipe\fR --read [\fIoptions\fR] >file
.P
\fBirpipe\fR --filter [\fIoptions\fR] <infile >outfile

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
irpipe is designed to feed data to lircd(8) over a /dev/irpipe device. It's a tool
to enter test data to lircd in a way which is identical to real data from /dev/lirc
devices.
.PP
irpipe uses two formats: text and binary. The binary format is documented in
the lirc(4) manual page. The text format is as defined in mode2(1).
.PP
The irpipe driver allows user  to set the features returned by the
.B LIRC_GET_FEATURES
ioctl. These are documented in lirc(4).
.PP
The irpipe kernel device is often not built in packaged lirc versions. See
[KERNEL DRIVER] below.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-device=driver\fR
Set kernel device, default is /dev/irpipe0.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fB\-\-bin2text\fR
Convert binary data to text.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fB\-\-text2bin\fR
Convert text data to binary.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fB\-\-add-sync\fR
Add long initial sync on converted output. This is often required for lircd to
be able to decode data, in particular if keys are not repeated.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fB\-\-filter\fR
Send data from stdin to stdout
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fB\-\-read\fR
Send data from kernel device to stdout. This option is experimental and not
tested.
.TP
\fB\-l\fB\-\-length\fR=\fIbits\fR
Set kernel device signal length. This is only meaningful on LIRCCODE device
emulation.
.TP
\fB\-F\fB\-\-features\fR=\fIbitmask\fR
Set the features bitmask, as returned by the
.B LIRC_GET_FEATURES
ioctl. See lirc(4) for more.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage summary.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version.


.SH KERNEL DRIVER

The irpipe tool is designed to work with the irpipe kernel driver, although
the --filter option works without it. This driver is often not built
in packaged versions. If this is the case, the driver can be built from
sources in the drivers/irpipe directory. This requires kernel sources
installed. The drivers/irpipe/README  provides information on building
and installing the driver.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B lircd(8)
.br
.B lirc(4)
