.TH IRSEND "1" "Last change: Mar 2017" "irsend @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirsend\fR - basic LIRC program to send infra-red commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsend_once \fI<remote>\fR \fI<code>\fR [\fIcode...]\fR
.br
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsend_start \fI<remote>\fR \fI<code>\fR
.br
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsend_stop \fI<remote>\fR \fI<code>\fR
.br
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIlist\fR \fI<remote>\fR \fI<code>\fR
.br
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIset_transmitters\fR \fI<num>\fR \fI[num...]\fR
.br
\fBirsend\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIsimulate\fR \fI<button press packet>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Asks the \fBlircd\fR daemon to send one or more CIR
(Consumer Infra-Red) commands.
This is intended for remote control of electronic devices such as
TV boxes, HiFi sets, etc.
.PP
\fBirsend\fR supports six sub-commands:
.nf
\fBsend_once\fR         - send one or more code(s) once
\fBsend_start\fR        - start repeating a code.
\fBsend_stop\fR         - stop repeating code.
\fBlist\fR              - list configured remote items
\fBset_transmitters\fR  - set active transmitters
\fBsimulate\fR          - simulate IR event
.fi
.P
\fIremote\fR is the name of a remote, as described in the \fBlircd\fR
configuration file.
.P
\fIcode\fR is the name of a remote control key of \fIremote\fR, as it
appears in the \fBlircd.conf\fR configuration file.
.P
\fInum\fR is the transmitter number of the hardware device.
.P
For the \fBlist\fR command, \fIremote\fR and/or \fIcode\fR
can be empty:
.IP
.nf
\fBlist\fR   ""    ""   - list all configured remote names
\fBlist\fR \fIremote\fR  ""   - list all codes of \fIremote\fR
\fBlist\fR \fIremote\fR \fIcode\fR  - list only \fIcode\fR of \fIremote\fR
.fi
.P
The \fBsimulate\fR command only works if it has been explicitly
enabled in lircd using the --allow-simulate option.
The required \fIbutton press packet\fR should formatted as a socket
broadcast message documented in \fBlircd(8)\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage summary.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fB\-\-device\fR=\fIdevice\fR
Use given lircd socket [@varrundir@/lirc/lircd].
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-address\fR=\fIhost[\fR:port]
Connect to lircd at this address.
.TP
\-# \fB\-\-count\fR=\fIn\fR
Send command n times.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 4
LIRC_SOCKET_PATH
The lircd socket to connect to, defaults to a hardcoded default value
@varrundir@/lirc/lircd
.SH FILES
.TP
.I @etcdir@/lirc/lircd.conf
Default \fBlircd\fR configuration file.  It should contain all the
remotes, their infra-red codes and the corresponding timing and
waveform details.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.P
If \fBlircd\fR is not running (or @varrundir@/lirc/lircd lacks write
permissions) \fBirsend\fR aborts with the following diagnostics:
.nf
"irsend: could not connect to socket"
"irsend: Connection refused" (or "Permission denied").
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
irsend LIST DenonTuner ""
irsend SEND_ONCE  DenonTuner PROG\-SCAN
irsend SEND_ONCE  OnkyoAmpli VOL\-UP VOL\-UP VOL\-UP VOL\-UP
irsend SEND_START OnkyoAmpli VOL\-DOWN ; sleep 3
irsend SEND_STOP  OnkyoAmpli VOL\-DOWN
irsend SET_TRANSMITTERS 1
irsend SET_TRANSMITTERS 1 3 4
irsend SIMULATE "0000000000000476 00 OK TECHNISAT_ST3004S"
.fi
.SH "DRIVER LOADING"
Drivers are loaded dynamically. The directory used for this is determined by (falling
priority):
.IP \- 2
The environment variable LIRC_PLUGINDIR.
.IP \- 2
The 'plugindir' entry in  the [lircd] section of the lirc_options.conf file.
.IP \- 2
A hardcoded default (@libpath@/lirc/plugins).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lircd(8),
.br
mode2(1),
.br
xmode2(1),
.br
irrecord(1),
.br
irw(1)
