.TH irsimsend "1" "Last change: Oct 2015" "irsimsend @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBirsimsend\fR - Send simulated IR data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBirsimsend\fR [\-k \fIkeysym\fR |-l \fIlistfile\fR ] [other options] <\fIfile\fR>
.P
\fBirsimsend\fR [\fI\-v\fR |\fI\-h\fR]
.P
\fBirsimsend\fR <\fIconfigfile\fR>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBirsimsend\fR is a simple test tool which given a lircd configuration
file will send all keys defined in that file, the keys listed in
another file or a symbol defined on the command line.
.PP
The program uses the file driver to log all sent data (pulses/spaces
durations) into a file 'simsend.out'. The symbols sent are printed on
stdout.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP 4
\fB-c, --count\fR  <\fIcount\fR>
Repeat each sent signal <count> times.

.TP 4
\fB-U, --plugindir\fB <\fIpath\fR>
Load drivers from \fIpath\fR, a ':' separated search path similar to $PATH.

.TP 4
\fB-l,--listfile\fR  <\fIpath\fR>
Send symbols listed in file instead of just the symbols in the config
file. The file could either be listing a single key symbol per line,
or have a complete code string like
\fI000000000000a123 01 KEY_POWER brand\fR on each line.

.TP 4
\fB-k\fR, \fB--keysym\fR
Send a single key symbol defined in \fIfile\fR.

.TP 4
\fB-s\fR, \fB--start-space\fR <\fIuseconds\fR>
Send an initial space before sending data.


.TP 4
\fB-v\fR , \fB--version\fR
Print version and exit.

.TP 4
\fB-h\fR , \fB--help\fR
Print help message.

.SH FILES
.TP 4
.B ~/.cache/irsimsend.log
Debug log. Setting the XDG_CACHE_HOME environment variable relocates this
file to $XDG_CACHE_HOME/irsimsend.log. The amount of logging respects the
LIRC_LOGLEVEL environment variable, defaulting to the \fidebug\fR value
in the\fi[lircd]\fR section of lirc_options.conf.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
The documentation for \fBlirc\fR
is maintained as html pages. They are located under html/ in the
documentation directory.
