.TH LIRCRCD "8" "Last change: Sep 2015" "lircrcd @version@" "System Manager Manual"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBlircrcd\fR - Synchronize lircrc state among client applications.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBlircrcd\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIconfig-file\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B lircrcd
reads the given .lircrc config file and synchronises the mode
that the LIRC clients such as \fBirexec(1)\fR, \fBirxevent(1)\fR,
etc., are in. Using
.B lircrcd
has to be explicitly
enabled in the lircrc config file by adding the following line at the
beginning of the file:
.IP
lircrc_class default
.P
This must be done at the top-level file, not an included one. The lircrc_class
string (here "default") could actually be anything; clients using the same
string in their lircrc will be synchronized.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help message.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version.
.TP
.BI \-p,\ \-\-permission= mode
The \-\-permission option gives the file permission of the Unix domain
socket lircrcd creates on startup in octal representation. Read the
documentation for chmod for further details. If no \-\-permission option
is given when the socket is created the default is to give only the
user owning the file read and write permissions (0600 in octal
representation).
.TP
.BI \-o,\ \-\-output= socket
With the \-\-output option you can select the Unix domain socket, which
lircrcd will create. The default is to create a socket in VARRUNDIR
(@varrundir@/lirc), see FILES.

.SH SOCKET PROTOCOL

lircrcd syntactically uses the same protocol as lircd described in the
lircd(8) manpage. It supports the following commands:

.TP 4
.B IDENT \fIident\fR
Each program connecting to lircrcd identifies itself using this program.
\fIident\fR is the string that is used in the \fIProg = \fR token inside
the .lircrc file.

.TP 4
.B CODE \fIcode\fR
When the client receives the code string from lircd it will send it to
lircrcd and will receive back the applicable config string from the .lircrc
config file. It should resend the CODE command until nothing is
returned back which means that nothing (more) should happen in response
to \fIcode\fR. This command is used each time the lirc_code2char()
function is called by a client.

.TP 4
.B GETMODE
lircrcd will return the current mode string.


.TP 4
.B SETMODE \fImode\fR
lircrcd will set the actual mode, reflecting a mode in the .lircrc
file.

.SH FILES
lircrcd creates its socket(s) in the VARRUNDIR directory
(@varrundir@/lirc).  The socket basename includes the user UID and the
string from the lircrc_class option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
The documentation for
.B lirc
is maintained as html pages. They are located under html/ in the
documentation directory.
