.TH LIRC-LSPLUGINS "1" "Last change: Oct 2016" "lirc-lsplugins @version@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
.P
\fBlirc-lsplugins\fR - Print dynamic modules info
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fBlirc-lsplugins\fR [\fI-l\fR] [\fI-q\fR] [\fI-U plugindir\fR] [\fIdrivers\fR]
.P
\fBlirc-lsplugins\fR -e [\fI-q\fR] [\fI-U plugindir\fR]
.P
\fBlirc-lsplugins\fR -y  [\fI-U plugindir\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Tool which writes a simple list with info for each driver found. In
particular, it writes info if a plugin can't be loaded e. g., due to
unresolved references.
.P
The
\fIdrivers\fR
argument is an optional selector which limits the output to matching drivers.
The match is a glob-type match as done by fnmatch()
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-U\fR \fB\-\-plugindir\fR <\fIpath\fR>
Use <path> to search for plugins. The path is a':'-separated search path
similar to e. g., $PATH.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Don't write headers and trailing legend.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fB\-\-summary\fR
Just write a summary over number of plugins, drivers and errors.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fB\-\-errors\fR
Only list plugins which can't be loaded, or does not contain any drivers.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR \fB\-\-yaml\fR
Make a YAML listing reflecting the drivers' configuration hints such as
the device_hint. The format is unstable and primarely used by lirc-setup(1).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fB\-\-long\fR
Add info on driver features.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fB\-\-default-path\fR
Print default search path and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage summary.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version info.

.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "" 4
$ lirc-lsplugins -U ../lib/.libs:/usr/local/lib/lirc/plugins tira*
.P
Lists all drivers with name matching 'tira*' found in plugins living
in ../lib/.libs or /usr/local/lib/lirc/plugins.

.SH RETURN VALUE
lirc-lsplugins returns a non-zero error code if there is at least one plugin
from which no driver can be loaded or options and parameters can't be
parsed. Otherwise it returns zero.

.SH BUGS
Some drivers change their capabilities in runtime after inspecting the
underlying hardware. These runtime capabilities can not be listed by
lirc-lsplugins.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
fnmatch(3)
.br
lircd(8)
