'\" t
.\"
.\" fstrcmp - fuzzy string compare library
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <pmiller@opensource.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH "Read Me" fstrcmp fstrcmp "Reference Manual"
.so etc/version.so
.hy 0
.ad l
.SH NAME
fstrcmp \- fuzzy string compare library
.XX "" "The README file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[I]fstrcmp\fP package provides a library which may be used to make
fuzzy comparisons of strings and byte arrays.  It also provides simple
commands for use in shell scripts.
.SS License
The library is licensed under the GNU GPL.  The code is derived from the
fuzzy comparisons functions in GNU Gettext, which is GNU GPL licensed.
The GNU Gettext fuzzy comparisons functions were, in turn, derived from
GNU Diff, which is also GNU GPL licensed.
.PP
These license details are important, because only GPL licensed programs,
or compatibly licensed programs, may link against this library.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH HOME PAGE
The latest version of \f[I]fstrcmp\fP is available on the Web from:
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l s
l l l.
URL:;http://fstrcmp.sourceforge.net/
File:;index.html;# the fstrcmp page
File:;fstrcmp.\*(v).README;# Description, from the tar file
File:;fstrcmp.\*(v).lsm;# Description, LSM format
File:;fstrcmp.\*(v).tar.gz;# the complete source
File:;fstrcmp.\*(v).pdf;# Reference Manual
.TE
.br
.ne 1i
.SH BUILDING FSTRCMP
Full instructions for building \f[I]fstrcmp\fP may be found in the
\f[I]BUILDING\fP file included in the source distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
It should be in the \f[I]LICENSE\fP file included in the source distribution.
.br
.bp
.SH RELEASE NOTES
.XX "" "Release Notes"
This section details the various features and bug fixes of the various
releases.  For excruciating and complete detail, and also credits for
those of you who have generously sent me suggestions and bug reports,
see the \f[I]etc/CHANGES.*\fP files.
.so etc/new.so
