.\"
.\" fstrcmp - fuzzy string compare library
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, 2011 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <pmiller@opensource.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) fstrcasecmp
.TH fstrcasecmp 3
.SH NAME
fstrcasecmp \- fuzzy comparison of two strings ignoring case
.if require_index \{
.XX "fstrcasecmp(3)" "fuzzy comparison of two strings ignoring case"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <fstrcmp.h>
.sp 0.3
#define FSTRCMP_IDENTICAL
.br
#define FSTRCMP_THRESHOLD
.br
#define FSTRCMP_ERROR
.sp 0.3
double fstrcasecmp(const char *string1, const char *string2);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[B]fstrcmp\fP() function compares the two strings,
\f[I]string1\fP and \f[I]string2\fP,
ignoring case.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The \f[B]fstrcasecmp\fP function returns a floating point value between
0.0 and FSTRCMP_IDENTICAL.  A value of 0.0 means the strings are
utterly un-alike.  A value of FSTRCMP_IDENTICAL means the strings are
identical.  A value of more than FSTRCMP_THRESHOLD (it lies between 0.0
and FSTRCMP_IDENTICAL) would be considered "similar" by most people.
.PP
A value of FSTRCMP_ERROR (always negative) indicates a \f[I]malloc\fP(3)
failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\f[I]fmemcmp\fP(3)
fuzzy comparison of two memory areas
.TP 8n
\f[I]fstrcasecmpi\fP(3)
fuzzy comparison of two strings ignoring case
.TP 8n
\f[I]fstrcmp\fP(3)
fuzzy comparison of two strings
.TP 8n
\f[I]strcasecmp\fP(3)
compare two strings ignoring case
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
