.\"
.\" fstrcmp - fuzzy string compare library
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, 2011 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <pmiller@opensource.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) fstrcolli
.TH fstrcolli 3
.SH NAME
fstrcolli \- fuzzy comparison of two strings using the current locale
.if require_index \{
.XX "fstrcolli(3)" "fuzzy comparison of two strings using the current locale"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <fstrcmp.h>
.sp 0.3
#define FSTRCMP_IDENTICAL
.br
#define FSTRCMP_THRESHOLD
.br
#define FSTRCMP_ERROR
.sp 0.3
int fstrcolli(const char *string1, const char *string2);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[B]strcolli\fP() function compares the two strings
\f[I]sting1\fP and \f[I]string2\fP.
The comparison is based on strings interpreted as appropriate for the
program's current locale for category LC_CTYPE.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The \f[B]fstrcolli\fP function returns an \f[B]int\fP value between
0 and FSTRCMPI_IDENTICAL.  A value of 0 means the strings are
utterly un-alike.  A value of FSTRCMPI_IDENTICAL means the strings are
identical.  A value of more than FSTRCMPI_THRESHOLD (it lies between 0
and FSTRCMPI_IDENTICAL) would be considered "similar" by most people.
.PP
A value of FSTRCMPI_ERROR (always negative) indicates a \f[I]malloc\fP(3)
or \f[I]mbstowcs\fP(3) failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\f[I]fstrcmpi\fP(3)
fuzzy comparison of two strings
.TP 8n
\f[I]fstrcoll\fP(3)
fuzzy comparison of two strings using the current locale
.TP 8n
\f[I]strcoll\fP(3)
compare two strings using the current locale
.TP 8n
\f[I]mbstowcs\fP(3)
convert a multibyte string to a wide-character string
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
